ISLAMIC STATE EXTREMIST IN MOST
OF THE GRUESOME EXECUTION VIDEOS
HAS BEEN IDENTIFIED.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
ALSO AHEAD THIS THURSDAY, A
PARADE OF REPUBLICAN
PRESIDENTIAL HOPEFULS GATHER TO
TALK CONSERVATIVE PRIORITIES AND
STRATEGY FOR 2016.
>> IF I DECIDE TO RUN FOR
PRESIDENT IM NOT WORRIED ABOUT
WHAT POLLS SAY 21 MONTHS BEFORE
WE'RE GOING TO ELECT THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.
I WILL RUN A HARD FIGHTING
CAMPAIGN WHERE I WILL FIGHFORT
HARDWORKING TAX PAYERS OF THIS
COUNTRY.
AND I'LL TAKE MY CHANCES ON ME.
>> Woodruff: THEN, FORMER
SENATOR JIM WEBB ON HIS POSSIBLE
BID FOR THE DEMOCRATIC
NOMINATION FOR PRESIDENT.
>> I THINK IT'S TIME TO PUT MY
OAR IN THE WATER AND ACTUALLY
TRY AND LEAD AND DO SOME THINGS,
RATHER THAN TO OBSERVE.
>> Ifill: PLUS, BUILDING A
BIGGER SAFETY NET IN RETIREMENT,
TIPS ON HOW TO MAXIMIZE YOUR
SOCIAL SECURITY BENEFITS.
>> Woodruff: AND, THE TRIUMPH
OVER SLAVERY CAPTURED IN THE
BRUSH STOKES OF PAINTER HALE
WOODRUFF.
>> ONCE A TRIUMPHANT STORY WHERE
THE UNDERDOG, WHO IS UNDERDOGS
WHO ARE BLACK MEN, ARE ABLE TO
TAKE CONTROL OF THEIR LIVES AND
ACTUALLY SET THEIR OWN DESTINY
WAS SOMETHING THAT PEOPLE FOUND
THRILNG.LI
AND I THINK SOME OTHER PEOPLE
FOUND QUITE THREATENING.
>> Woodruff: THOSE ARE SOME OF
THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TOGHT'NIS "PBS NEWSHOUR."
>> Ifill: HOUSE REPUBLICANS ARE
NOW CONSIDERING A SHORT-TERM
MEASURE TO KEEP THE HOMELAND
SECURITY DEPARTMENT FUNCTIONING.
REPUBLICAN SOURCES TELL "THE
NEWSHOUR" THE TEMPORARY BILL
COULD FUND THE AGENCY FOR THREE
WEEKS.
OTHERWISE, IT RUNS OUT OF MONEY
TOMORROW NIGHT.
UNTIL NOW, THE HOUSE G.O.P. HAS
BEEN DEMANDING A FUNDING BILL
THAT ROLLS BACK THE PRESIDENT'S
IMMIGRATION POLICY.
SENATE DEMOCRATS REPEATEDLY
BLOCKED IT.
THEIR LEADER, HARRY REID, STUCK
BY THAT TODAY.
IF THEY SEND OVER A BILL WITH
ALL THE RIDERS IN IT, THEY'VE
SHUT DOWN THE GOVERNMENT.
WE ARE NOT GOING TO PLAY GAMES.
WE'VE BEEN WORKING FOR A MONTH
TO COME UP WITH A CLEAR FUNDING
PROPOSAL THE PRESIDENT CAN SIGN,
SO THEY CAN, THEY CAN PUT ALL
THE RIDERS ON IT THEY WANT, WE
WILL NOT ALLOW THAT TO TAKE
PLACE.
>> Ifill: SENATE REPUBLICAN
LEADERS HAVE NOW AGREED TO GO
AHEAD WITH A LONG-TERM FUNDING
BILL WITHOUT THE IMMIGRATION
LANGUAGE.
BUT HOUSE SPEAKER JOHN BOEHNER
WOULD STILL NOT SAY TODAY IF
THAT'S ACCEPTABLE.
>> IT IS NOT A FIGHT AMONGST
REPUBLICANS.
ALL REPUBLICANS AGREE THAT WE
WANT TO FUND THE DEPARTMENT OF
HOMELAND SECURITY AND WE WANT TO
STOP THE PRESIDENT'S EXECUTIVE
ACTIONS WITH REGARD TO
IMMIGRATION.
SO WE ARE WAITING TO SEE WHAT
THE SENATE CAN OR CAN'T DO.
AND THEN WE'LL MAKE DECISIONS
ABOUT HOW WE ARE GOING TO
PROCEED.
>> Ifill: UNLESS SOMETHING IS
SIGNED INTO LAW BY THE WEEKEND,
30,000 HOMELAND SECURITY
EMPLOYEES WILL BE FURLOUGHED.
ANOTHER 200,000 WILL HAVE TO
WORK FOR A TIME WITHOUT PAY.
>> Woodruff: A SWEEPING
REGULATORY SHAKEUP IS COMING TO
THE INTERNET TO ENSURE "NET
NEUTRALITY," THE IDEA THAT NO
ONE HAS FAVORED OR FASTER ACCESS
THAN ANYONE ELSE.
THE FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS
COMMISSION VOTED THREE TO TWO
TODAY FOR A NEW RULE.
IT SAYS COMCAST, VERIZON AND
OTHER SERVICE PROVIDERS MUST ACT
IN THE "PUBLIC INTEREST."
THEY'RE BARRED FROM SLOWING OR
BLOCKING WEB TRAFFIC OR CREATING
SPECIAL "FOR PAY" FAST LANES.
THE BROADBAND INDUSTRY VOWED TO
CHALLENGE THE RULE IN COURT.
>> Ifill: RUSSIA HAS NOW BECOME
THE LEADING CYBER-THREAT TO U.S.
NATIONAL SECURITY.
THE DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL
INTELLIGENCE, JAMES CLAPPER,
SAID AS MUCH TO CONGRESS TODAY.
IT'S PART OF AN ANNUAL
ASSESSMENT.
BUT THIS YEAR, RUSSIA DISPLACED
CHINA AS THE LEAD THREAT.
CLAPPER OFFERED NO EXPLANATION.
>> Woodruff: IN SYRIA, THE
NUMBER OF CHRISTIANS ABDUCTED BY
ISLAMIC STATE FORCES THIS WEEK
HAS RISEN TO AT LEAST 220.
THAT'S ACCORDING TO A REPORT
TODAY BY SYRIAN ACTIVISTS.
MEANWHILE, IN IRAQ, A NEW
ISLAMIC STATE VIDEO SHOWED
MILITANTS SMASHING ANCIENT
ARTIFACTS AT A MUSEUM IN MOSUL.
THEY DECLARED THE OBJECTS WERE
UNHOLY IDOLS.
SOME WERE NEARLY 3,000 YEARS
OLD.
>> Ifill: THE DEATH TOLL FROM
AVALANCHES IN NORTHEASTERN
AFGHANISTAN ROSE TO AT LEAST 186
TODAY.
FUNERALS WERE HELD FOR MANY OF
THE VICTIMS, IN THE PANJSHIR
VALLEY, 60 MILES FROM KABUL.
RELATIVES HAND-CARRIED THE
BODIES THROUGH DEEP SNOW.
>> ( translated ): THE SNOW
WAS TOO STRONG AND SO HEAVY.
I HAVE NEVER SEEN SUCH A HEAVY
SNOW IN NIGH MY60-YEAR LIFE.
IT IS TOO STRONG.
WE COULD NOT EVEN REACH OUT TO
OUR NEIGHBORS FOR SEVERAL HOURS.
>> Ifill: OFFICIALS SAY THE
DEATH TOLL COULD GO HIGHER ONCE
CREWS REACH THE HARDEST HIT
AREAS.
>> Woodruff: A JUDGE IN
ARGENTINA HAS DISMISSED
ALLEGATIONS THAT PRESIDENT
CRISTINA FERNANDEZ COVERED UP
IRANIAN INVOLVEMENT IN A
1994 BOMBING.
THE ATTACK KILLED 85 PEOPLE AT A
JEWISH COMMUNITY CENTER.
A PROSECUTOR FILED THE COMPLAINT
BEFORE HE DIED, UNDER MYSTERIOUS
CIRCUMSTANCES.
EVIDENCE IMPLICATING FERNANDEZ.
>> Ifill: BACK IN THIS COUNTRY,
A FEDERAL JURY IN NEW YORK
CONVICTED A SAUDI ARABIAN MAN
TODAY IN THE 1998 BOMBINGS OF
TWO U.S. EMBASSIES.
PROSECUTORS SAID KHALED AL-
FAWWAZ WAS AN EARLY LEADER OF
AL-QAEDA.
THE BOMBINGS IN KENYA AND
TANZANIA KILLED 224 PEOPLE.
>> Woodruff: THE SENATE
JUDICIARY COMMITTEE APPROVED THE
NOMINATION OF LORETTA LYNCH
TODAY, FOR ATTORNEY GENERAL.
THREE REPUBLICANS JOINED
COMMITTEE DEMOCRATS IN THE 12 TO
EIGHT VOTE.
IF THE FULL SENATE CONFIRMS HER,
LYNCH WILL BE THE FIRST AFRICAN-
AMERICAN WOMAN TO SERVE AS
ATTORNEY GENERAL.
>> Ifill: RUNNING BACK ADRIAN
PETERSON HAS BEEN CLEARED FOR
RE-INSTATEMENT TO THE MINNESOTA
VIKINGS.
THE NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE HAD
SUSPENDED HIM THROUGH MID-APRIL
OVER A CHILD ABUSE CASE.
TODAY, A FEDERAL JUDGE FOUND THE
LEAGUE PUNISHED HIM UNDER A
POLICY THAT WAS NOT YET IN FORCE
WHEN HE WAS CHARGED WITH THE
CRIME.
EAE NFL SAID IT WILL APPL.
>> AND ON WALL STREET, A FRESH
DROP IN
>> Woodruff: AND ON WALL STREET,
A FRESH DROP IN OIL PRICES HURT
ENERGY STOCKS.
THAT SENT THE
DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
DOWN TEN POINTS, BUT IT'S STILL
ABOVE 18,200.
THE NASDAQ ROSE 20 POINTS, AND
THE S-AND-P 500 SLIPPED THREE.
>> Ifill: STILL TO COME ON THE
NEWSHOUR, EXTREMISTS AT HOME AND
ABROAD.
CONSERVATIVES GATHER TO TEST
CANDIDATES FOR  2016;
FORMER SENATOR JIM WEBB ON
TESTING DEMOCRATIC WATERS;
LEGALIZING MARIJUANA IN
WASHINGTON D.C.;
WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW IN ORDER
TO MAXIMIZE SOCIAL SECURITY
BENEFITS;
THE LIFE OF PIONEERING
JOURNALIST ETHEL PAYNE, THE
FIRST LADY OF THE BLACK PRESS;
AND, A TALE OF ENSLAVEMENT,
REBELLION, AND REPATRIATION, IN
MURALS.
>> Woodruff: FOLLOWING
YESTERDAY'S DISCOVERY OF THREE
MEN IN THE UNITED STATES
ATTEMPTING TO JOIN THE ISLAMIC
STATE, THE WORLD LEARNED TODAY
THE IDENTITY OF "JIHADI JOHN",
ONE OF THE EXTREMIST GROUP'S
MOST INFAMOUS MEMBERS.
>> I'M BACK, OBAMA AND I'M BACK
BECAUSE OF YOUR ARROGANT FOREIGN
POLICY TOWARDS ISLAMIC STATE.
>> Woodruff: THE BRITISH VOICE
BEHIND THE MASK HAS REPEATEDLY
THREATENED THE U.S., BRITAIN AND
THEIR ALLIES, IN VIDEOS SHOWING
HOSTAGES BEING BRUTALLY
MURDERED.
>> Woodruff: TODAY, IT WAS
WIDELY REPORTED THAT BRITISH AND
U.S. INTELLIGENCE HAVE
IDENTIFIED THE MAAS MN OHAMMED
EMWAZI.
BORN IN KUWAIT, HE GREW UP IN A
PREDOMINANTLY MUSLIM
NEIGHBORHOOD IN WEST LONDON.
AND GRADUATED WITH A DEGREE IN
COMPUTER PROGRAMMING FROM THE
UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER.
IN 2009, EMWAZI TRAVELED TO
TANZANIA, ON WHAT HE SAID WAS A
SAFARI.
HE TOLD A MUSLIM ADVOCACY GROUP
THAT BRITISH INTELLIGENCE
ACCUSED HIM OF TRYING TO REACH
THE "AL-SHABAAB" TERROR GROUP IN
SOMALIA, AND HE WAS DEPORTED.
LATER, HE MOVED TO KUWAIT, AND
VISITED LONDON AT LEAST TWICE.
HE ULTIMATELY TRAVED TOLE SYRIA
IN 2012.
OUTSIDE HIS FORMER LONDON HOME
TODAY, NEIGHBORS EXPRESSED
DISBELIEF AT EMWAZI'S ALLEGED
ACTIONS.
>> HE THINKS IT IS JIHAD, NO IT
IS NOT JIHAD, I AM TELLING HIM
NO IT IS NOT JIHAD, YOU ARE
KILLING PEOPLE AS JIHAD, NO IT
IS NOT JIHAD, SORRY.
>> Woodruff: THE "JIHADI JOHN"
NEWS CAME A DAY AFTER THE F.B.I.
CHARGED TWO BROOKLYN MEN  OF
UZBEKI AND KAZAKH BACKGROUND
WITH TRYING TO FLY TO SYRIA TO
JOIN ISLAMIC STATE FIGHTERS.
NEW YORK CITY POLICE
COMMISSIONER BILL BRATTON.
>> IT WAS MADE QUITE PLAIN BASED
ON THEIR OWN STATEMENTS THAT IF
THEY WERE NOT ABLE TO GO, THAT
THEY WOULD SEEK TO ACQUIRE
WEAPONS HERE, HANDGUNS, MACHINE
GUN, AND SEEK TO ATTACK VERY
SPECIFICALLY POLICE OFFICERS,
AND SO THAT THOSE ASPIRATIONS
WERE MADE QUITE CLEAR BY THEIR
OWN STATEMENTS.
>> Woodruff: THE TWO MEN, PLUS A
THIRD MAN IN JACKSONVILLE,
FLORIDA ARE BEING HELD WITHOUT
BAIL ON CHARGES OF CONSPIRACY TO
PROVIDE MATERIAL SUPPORT TO A
TERRORIST GROUP.
>> Woodruff: TO HELP FILL IN
BOTH STORIES, I'M JOINED BY
PETER NEUMANN, DIRECTOR OF THE
INTERNATIONAL CENTER FOR THE
STUDY OF RADICALIZATION AT KINGS
COLLEGE IN LONDON.
PETER NEUMANN, WELCOME BACK TO
THE NEWSHOUR.
IS THERE ANY DOUBT THAT THIS MAN
IS THE MAN IN THOSE TERRIBLE
VIDEOS?
>> I DON'T HAVE ANY DOUBTS.
I THINK CONFIRMATIONS HAVE COME
FROM DIFFERENT ANGLES, AND I
READ TODAY THAT A MEMBER OF THE
U.S. INTELLIGENCE SERVICES, EVEN
THOUGH HE DIDN'T WANT TO BE
NAMED, CONFIRMED THE IDENTITY.
SO I'M PRETTY CERTAIN IT IS THE
MAN.
>> Woodruff: WHAT IS IT ABOUT
HIM THAT YOU SEE AND HIS JOURNEY
FROM BEING BORN IN KUWAIT,
MOVING TO LONDON.
WHAT IS IT ABOUT THAT JOURNEY
THAT STANDS OUT TO YOU THAT MAY
BE DISTINCTIVE OR LIKE WHAT
YOU'VE SEEN HAPPEN TO OTHERS WHO
HAVE BECOME RADICALIZED?
>> SO THERE'S A LOT OF PIECES OF
THE PUZZLE THAT WE DO NOT HAVE
YET.
IT'S CERTAINLY NOT UNUSUAL FOR
SOMEONE FROM FAIRLY MIDDLE-CLASS
BACKGROUND WHO WENT TO
UNIVERSITY TO BECOME
RADICALIZED.
IT IS A FALLACY TO THINK THAT
YOU NECESSARILY HAVE TO BE POOR
AND UNEDUCATED TO BECOME
IDEOLOGY.
WHAT WE OFTEN OBSERVE WITH
PEOPLE LIKE THAT IS THAT
WHEREVER THEY COME FROM, THEY DO
NOT FEEL THAT THEY HAVE A STAKE
IN THEIR SOCIETY, AND THAT THEY
HAVE CONFLICTS OF IDENTITY THAT
DO NOT AUTOMATICALLY TURN THEM
INTO TERRORISTS, BUT THAT MAKE
THEM RECEPTIVE FOR THE SORT OF
BLACK-AND-WHITE MESSAGE THAT
COMES FROM EXTREMISTS, THE SORT
OF MESSAGE THAT SAYS, YOU DO NOT
HAVE A STAKE IN THIS SOCIETY
BECAUSE YOU DO NOT BELONG TO
THAT SOCIETY.
YOU HAVE TO PICK.
ARE YOU BRITISH OR A MUSLIM?
YOU CANNOT BE BRITISH AND MUSLIM
AT THE SAME TIME.
I THINK IN THE CASE OF THIS
PARTICULAR INDIVIDUAL, THAT MAY
HAVE HAPPENED AT THE UNIVERSITY
WHERE HE WAS GOING, WHICH IS
KNOWN TO HAVE BEEN A UNIVERSITY
WHERE RADICAL GROUPS WERE
ACTIVE.
>> Woodruff: THERE WAS ALSO--
THERE SEEMED TO BE A SUGGESTION
THAT-- FROM THE INFORMATION
COMING OUT OF LONDON THAT HE--
THAT HE HAD BEEN HARASSED
BYE-BYE BRITISH INTELLIGENCE,
AND MAYBE THIS WAS SOMETHING
THAT PUSHED HIM OVER THE EDGE.
HOW DO YOU SEE THAT?
>> WELL,  I THINK THIS IS AN
ARGUMENT THAT HAS BEEN PUT
FORWARD BY A GROUP CALLED CAGE.
CAGE IS CALLING ITSELF A HUMAN
RIGHTS GROUP, BUT IT IS QUITE
CONTROVERSIAL BECAUSE IT
ESSENTIALLY ALWAYS TRIES TO
PORTRAY PEOPLE WHO HAVE BECOME
INVOLVED IN TERRORISM OFFENSES
AS VICTIMS.
AND, AGAIN, I THINK THEY ARE
CONFUSION CAUSE AND EFFECT.
THE REASON WHY HE WAS HARASSED
BY THE SECURITY SERVICES IS
BECAUSE EVEN BEFORE THE CONFLICT
STARTED, HE TRIED TO GO TO EAST
AFRICA AND JOIN AL-SHABAAB.
SO IF YOU WANT THE HARASSMENT OF
THE SECURITY SERVICES WAS AN
OUTCOME.
IT WAS NOT THE CAUSE OF HIS
RADICALIZATION.
WHAT I'M REALLY INTERESTED IN IS
WHAT HAPPENED IN THE YEARS
BEFORE HE WENT TO EAST AFRICA
BECAUSE THAT IS HIS REAL
RADICALIZATION.
>> Woodruff: PETER NEUMANN,
NOW, LET ME ASK YOU ABOUT THESE
TWO MEN IN BROOKLYN WHO-- ONE
WAS UZBEK.
THE OTHER WAS KAZAKH IN BAECTD.
THEY WERE BACKGROUND.
THEY WERE INVOLVED IN INTERNET
CHAT ROOMS.
WHAT DO YOU SEE ABOUT THEIR
BACKGROUND THAT HELPS US
UNDERSTAND WHAT HAPPENED HERE?
>> IT'S VERY DIFFICULT.
I MEAN, WE WOULD CONSIDER THEM
IN OUR RESEARCH, WE WOULD
CONSIDER THEM TO BE SO-CALLED
"FAN BOYS."
THERE ARE HUNDRED IF NOT
THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE ON THE
INTERNET WHO ARE MAKING
SUPPORTIVE STATEMENTS OF-- IN
FAVOR OF ISIS.
AND THEY WERE UNLUCKY, FROM
THEIR POINT OF VIEW, IN THE
SENSE THAT THE F.B.I. PICKS UP
ON THEM AND INVOLVED THEM IN A
SO-CALLED STING OPERATION.
WE DO NOT KNOW WHAT WOULD HAVE
HAPPENED TO THEM HAD THE F.B.I.
NOT PICKED THEM UP.
WHAT'S REALLY DIFFICULT, THOUGH,
IN DEFENSE OF THE F.B.I., IS
BECAUSE THE THERE ARE SO MANY PE
OUT THERE, IT IS VERY, VERY
DIFFICULT TO DISTINGUISH WHICH
ONES OF THESE PEOPLE ON THE
INTERNET ARE JUST TALKING AND
WHICH ONES ARE ACTUALLY READY TO
PACK THEIR BAGS AND GO TO SYRIA?
WE'VE SEEN EVIDENCE BOTH, AND
NITION THIS PARTICULAR CASE, THE
F.B.I. DID NOT WANT TO TAKE A
CHANCE.
>> Woodruff: PETER NEUMANN,
WITH KINGS COLLEGE IN LONDON, WE
THANK YOU FOR BEING WITH US YOU.
>> Ifill: CONSERVATIVE ACTIVISTS
FLOCK TO SUBURBAN WASHINGTON
EVERY YEAR TO JOIN FORCES,
STREAMLINE THEIR MESSAGE AND
PROVIDE AN AUDIENCE FOR THE MEN
AND WOMEN INTERESTED IN RUNNING
FOR PRESIDENT.
THIS YEAR IS NO DIFFERENT.
OVER TWO DAYS, POTENTIAL
REPUBLICAN CANDIDATES ARE MAKING
THEIR CASE AT THE CONSERVATIVE
POLITICAL ACTION CONFERENCE,
ALSO KNOWN AS CPAC.
NEWSHOUR POLITICAL DIRECTOR
DOMENICO MONTANARO WAS THERE.
O, SAY CAN YOU SEE
>> Reporter: WELCOME TO THE
REPUBLICAN RACE FOR 20-16.
>> THIS IS A ROOM FULL OF
PATRIOTS.
>> Reporter: TEXAS SENATOR TED
CRUZ IS ONE OF MORE THAN A DOZEN
REPUBLICANS THINKING ABOUT
RUNNING FOR PRESIDENT WHO SPOKE
AT THE CONSERVATIVE POLITICAL
ACTION CONFERENCE, BETTER KNOWN
AS C-PAC.
HE FIRED UP THE CROWD WITH TOUGH
TALK ON TERRORISM.
>> WE NEED A COMMANDER IN CHIEF
WHO WILL ACTUALLY STAND UP AND
DEFEND THE USA.
WE CANNOT DEFEAT RADICAL ISLAMIC
TERRORISM WITH A PRESIDENT WHO
IS UNWILLING TO UTTER WORDS
RADICAL ISLAMIC TERRORISM.
>> Reporter: DESPITE TRAILING IN
EARLY POLLS, NEW JERSEY GOVERNOR
CHRIS CHRISTIE SHOWED SOME OF
THE DEFIANCE HE'S FAMOUS FOR.
>> IF I DECIDE TO RUN FOR
PRESIDENT I'M NOT WORRIED ABOUT
WHAT POLLS SAY 21 MONTHS BEFORE
WE'RE GOING TO ELECT THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.
IF I DECIDE TO RUN LET ME TELL
YOU ONE THING-- I WILL RUN A
HARD-FIGHTING CAMPAIGN WHERE I
WILL FIGHT FOR HARD-WORKING
TAXPAYERS OF THIS COUNTRY.
AND I'LL TAKE MY CHANCES ON ME.
>> Reporter: FOR CONSERVATIVES
LOOKING FOR A FRESH FACE,
NEUROSURGEON BEN CARSON, WHO HAS
NEVER HELD A POLITICAL OFFICE,
IS A TEA PARTY FAVORITE.
>> WE NEED TO MOVE IN A VERY
DIFFERENT DIRECTION, WE NEED TO
UNDERSTAND WHAT TRUE COMPASSION
IS IN ORDER TO REACH OUT TO
INDIVIDUALS WHO THINK THAT MAYBE
BEING DEPENDENT IS REASONABLE AS
LONG AS THEY FEEL SAFE, AND IT
ISN'T.
>> Reporter: THE CANDIDATE WITH
RECENT MOMENTUM IS WISCONSIN
GOVERNOR SCOTT WALKER.
>> WE UNDERSTAND THAT PEOPLE
CREATE JOBS, NOT THE GOVERNMENT,
AND WE'RE GOING TO HELP THE THE
PEOPLE OF THIS GREAT COUNTRY
CREATE MORE JOBS, CREATE MORE
CAREERS, CREATE MORE
OPPORTUNITY.
>> Reporter: MANY CONSERVATIVES
BELIEVE WALKER IS BEST
POSITIONED TO GIVE FLORIDA
GOVERNOR JEB BUSH, THE CURRENT
FRONT RUNNER, A STRONG
CHALLENGE.
CPAC FAITHFUL WILL HAVE A CHANCE
TO HEAR HIM TOMORROW.
>> Ifill: DOMENICO IS BACK
FROM THE CONFERENCE AND JOINS ME
NOW.
CHRIS CHRISTIE HAS A POINT.
20 MONTHS OUT.
WHAT WAS TODAY'S CONFERENCE
SUPPOSED TO ACCOMPLISH?
>> IT'S REALLY A FIRST CHANCE
FOR A LOT OF THESE CANDIDATES TO
BE ABLE TO WOO SOME OF THESE
ACTIVISTS THAT THEY'RE GOING TO
HOPE MIGHT BE ON SOME OF THEIR
CAMPAIGNS IN 2016.
IT ALL GIVES US, FRANKLY, AN
OPPORTUNITY TO SEE WHAT SOME OF
THEIR MESSAGING MIGHT BE LIKE.
SPEAKING OF CHRISTIE, IT REALLY
STRUCK ME, AS HE'S TRYING TO
REALLY OWN THAT BLUE-COLLAR
MESSAGE, WHICH IS NEW FOR HIM, I
THINK, BUT HE ALSO SAW IN 2012
THAT WORKED FORRICK  SANTORUM TO
BE SOMEBODY WHO COULD REALLY
CAPTURE THE PLU-COLLAR MESSAGE.
IT HELPED MEEFS RUNNING AGAINST
SOMEBODY WORTH A QUARTER BILLION
DOLLARS BUT I THINK THAT'S
SOMETHING WE LEARNED TODAY WE'RE
GOING TO HEAR A LITTLE MORE FROM
CHRISTIE AS HE STRUGGLES IN THE
POLLS.
>> Ifill: WE'RE HEARING FROM
WASHINGTON A LOT OF CONVERSATION
ABOUT IMMIGRATION REFORM AND
OTHER DOMESTIC POLICY ISSUES.
WHAT DOMINATED THE DISCUSSION
THERE?
>> THERE WERE SOME DOMESTIC
ISSUES.
WE HEARD ABOUT REPEALING
OBAMACARE, WHICH IS SOMETHING
THAT CAME UP WAY MORE IN THE
CPAC DISCUSSIONS, BUT I WAS
INTERESTED IN THE FACT THAT THE
HAWKS WERE BACK IN TOWN.
FOREIGN POLICY REALLY DOMINATED
A LOT OF THE CONVERSATION AND
FIRED UP THE CROWD MORE SO--
>> Ifill: FOR INSTANCE.
>> CRUZ IN THAT BITE WE HEARD,
HE WAS SAYING THE WAY YOU FIGHT
ISIS OR FIGHT THESE TERRORISTS,
THE ISLAMIC STATE GROUP.
YOU KILL THEM, YOU DON'T TRY TO
OFFER THEM A JOB, REFERRING TO A
STATE DEPARTMENT EMPLOYEE WHO
SAID THE ECONOMY IS ONE OF THE
ISSUES.
CARLY FARINA, NOT SOMETHING YOU
WOULD THINK OF AS A BIG POLICY
HAWK, SHE MOSTLY TALKED ABOUT
FOREIGN POLICY, REALLY GOT THE
CROWD GOING.
>> Ifill: AND LOT OF LOVE FOR
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU COMING TO
THIS GIVE THIS CONTROVERSIAL
SPEECH.
>> SCOTT WALKER MENTIONED
NETANYAHU, AND WE NEED A
PRESIDENT WHO WILL STAND WITH
ONE OF OUR STAUNCHESTES AS
WELL.
>> Ifill: DID IT SEEM LIKE
THEY WERE ALREADY RUNNING
AGAINST HILLARY CLINTON?
>> THAT'S PART OF IT FOR SURE.
MANY CANDIDATEMENTIONED HILLARY
CLINTON.
I THINK BARACK OBAMA IS THE
BIGGER LIGHTNING ROD.
THAT SAID, WE DIDN'T HEAR
ANOTHER SINGLE CANDIDATE'S NAME
MENTIONED WHEN IT COMESES TO
2016.
CLEARLY THEY HAVE THEIRSITIS SET
ON HILLARY.
>> Ifill: BEHIND THE SCENES,
WHO IS WORKING HARDEST TODAY?
TOMORROW WE SEE JEB BUSH AND THE
OTHERS.
>> I THOUGHT IT WAS INTERESTING
BEING DOWN THERE, THE MOST
PROFESSIONALIZATION AROUND THE
CONFERENCE LOOKED LIKE IT WAS
FROM SENATOR RUZ, REALLY.
IF HE DOES WELL IN THE STRAW
POLL, THEN HE'LL BE BACK IN THE
CONVERSATION.
THERE WERE PROFESSIONAL POSTERS
OF HIM THAT WERE PUT OUT FOR
PEOPLE.
BUTTONS THAT LOOKED LIKE REAL
CAMPAIGN BUT FRONS MAYBE A
GENERATION AGO.
AND-- BECAUSE NOW EVERYONE HAS
TWITTER HANDLES.
IT'S NOT ABOUT BUTTONS ANYMORE.
HE WAS MENTIONING "TEXT ME AND
TEXT CONSTITUTION."
SO HIM AND WALKER WERE REALLY
DOING A LOT OF THAT.
>> Ifill: DOMENICO MONTANARO,
THANKS AGAIN.
>> Woodruff: TONIGHT WE BEGIN A
SERIES OF INTERVIEWS WITH THE
MEN AND WOMEN WHO ARE
CONSIDERING RUNNING FOR
PRESIDENT NEXT YEAR.
IT IS A WIDE FIELD FROM BOTH THE
LEFT AND THE RIGHT.
AND WE START WITH DEMOCRAT JIM
WEBB OF VIRGINA, AN AUTHOR AND
VETERAN WHO SERVED SIX YEARS IN
THE U.S. SENATE AND WAS
SECRETARY OF THE NAVY UNDER
PRESIDENT REAGAN.
SENATOR JIM WEBB, THANK YOU FOR
JOINING US.
>> THANK YOU FOR HAVING ME
SPHWHRO.>> Woodruff: SO YOU FORN
EXPLORATORY COMMITTEE.
WHY ARE YOU CONSIDERING RUNNING?
>> I THINK LEADERSHIP.
I THINK THE COUNTRY REALLY IS IN
NEED OF LEADERSHIP THAT PEOPLE
CAN TRUST, AND THIS IS SORT OF
THE THIRD TIME THAT I HAVE DONE
THIS IN MY PROFESSIONAL CAREER,
IN TERMS OF DECIDING TO COME
INTO PUBLIC SERVICE AFTER
LEAVING FOR A WHILE.
I'VE HAD THIS PROFESSIONAL LIFE
WHERE ALMOST EXACTLY HALF THE
TIME IDENTIFY WORKED AS A WRITER
AND BUSINESS CONSULTANT, SOLE
PROPRIETOR, AND HALF THE TIME
I'VE BEEN IN PUBLIC SERVICE.
I CAME BACK IN ACTUALLY TO THE
REAGAN ADMINISTRATION AFTER I
HAD BEEN IN BEIRUT WHEN THE
BUILDING BLEW UP AND 240
AMERICANS DIED, I CALLED THE
REAGAN ADMINISTRATION WHO I HAD
TALKED TO BEFORE AND I SAID I
THINK IT'S TIME TO PUT MY OAR IN
THE WATER AND ACTUALLY TRY AND
LEAD AND DO SOME THINGS RATHER
THAN TO OBSERVE.
I DID THE SAME THING WHEN I RAN
FOR SENATE.
AND SO I THINK I'VE HAD A SET OF
EXPERIENCES INSIDE AND OUTSIDE
OF PUBLIC SERVICE THAT WOULD
HELP ME UNDERSTAND THE ISSUES
THAT WE HAVE AND HOPEFULLY BE
ABLE TO PUT TOGETHER THE KIND OF
AN ADMINISTRATION THAT CAN
ACTUALLY GET THINGS DONE.
>> Woodruff: WHAT WOULD BE,
SAY, THE ECONOMIC LANDMARK OF A,
ABOUT-- TO GET EMPLOYERS TO
RAISE WAGES IN THIS COUNTRY?
>> WELL, I THINK WE'VE SEEN OVER
THE LAST 30 YEARS THE BREAKDOWN
OF THE WAY THAT OUR CORPORATE
LEADERS TOOK CARE OF THE AVERAGE
AMERICAN WORKER.
AND I'VE SPOKEN ABOUT THIS
DURING THE SENATE CAMPAIGN AND
DURING THE TIME THAT I WAS IN
THE SENATE, WE DON'T HAVE TWO
AMERICAS ANYMORE.
WE HAVE THREE AMERICAS.
WE ARE PEOPLE AT THE VERY TOP
WHO HAVE MOVED AWAY FROM THE
WORKING PEOPLE IN THE COUNTRY,
AND WE'RE SEEING TWO DIFFERENT
SETS OF CHALLENGES WITH RESPECT
TO WORKING PEOPLE.
THE FIRST IS GROWING OUR
ECONOMY, GETTING MANUFACTURING
JOBS BACK.
WE CAN DO THAT BY REDUCING THE
CORPORATE INCOME TAX,
ELIMINATING LOOPHOLES, INTENT
VISING THE MONEY TO COME BACK
IN.
THE AMERICAN WORKER IS THE MOST
PRODUCTIVE WORKER IN THE WORLD.
THE SECOND IS THE REALITY,
PARTICULARLY AMONG YOUNGER
WORKERS TODAY, THAT THE OLD
MODEL DOESN'T WORK ANYMORE.
PEOPLE ARE BASICALLY BECOMING
INDEPENDENT CONTRACTORS RATHER
THAN FULL-TIME WORKERS, AND WE
HAVE TO CREATE SOLUTIONS FOR
PEOPLE WHO ARE IN THAT SITUATION
OVER A CAREER.
>> Woodruff: YOU'VE ALSO
TALKED.
WHEN THE TWO PARTIES --
BOTH PARTIES YOU SAID HAVE BEEN
TAKEN OVER BY ELET'S.
HILLARY CLINTON IS SOMEONE YOU
SUGGESTED, ALONG WITH OTHERS,
WHO MAY BE TOO CLOSE TO WITH
THE.
HOW DO YOU SEE THAT PART OF WHAT
THE DEMOCRATIC HAS DONE?
>> WELL, I HAVEN'T REALLY
COMMENTED, AND I DON'T WANT TO
COMMENT ON OTHER PEOPLE WHO
MIGHT BE RUN AGO.
>> Sreenivasan: THEY'RE SAYING
SHE'S THE FRONT-RUNNER EVEN
THOUGH SHE HASN'T ANNOUNCED.
>> IN JANUARY, I THINK WE NEED
TO BE DEVELOPING FORMULAS THAT
WILL CREATE AN UNDERSTANDING OF
TRUE FAIRNESS IN OUR COUNTRY.
AND THE BIGGEST BREAKDOWN, IF
YOU LOOK AT THE TIME PERIOD FROM
APRIL 2009 TO TODAY WHEN THE
RECESSION BOTTOMED OUT AND
STARTED TO COME BACK HAS
BASICALLY BEEN BETWEEN PEOPLE
WHO HAVE CAPITAL SAFETIES,
PEOPLE WHO WERE PART OF THE
CORPORATE ENVIRONMENT,
PARTICULARLY, AND PEOPLE WHO ARE
JUST SALARIED WORKERS.
THE STOCK MARKET HAS TRIPLED
SINCE APRIL 2009.
IT'S ABOVE 18,000.
IT WAS 6400.
THE AVERAGE WORKING PERSON'S
INCOME HAS ACTUALLY GONE DOWN,
AND WE NEED A VOICE IN THE
DEMOCRATIC PARTY THAT WILL FOCUS
ON THE ECONOMIC FAIRNESS PACKAGE
AS A PRINCIPAL GOVERNING FACTOR.
>> Woodruff: YOU HAVE BEEN
QUOTED AS SAYING DEMOCRATS HAVE
"USED WHITE WORKING MALES AS A
WHIPPING POST FOR A LOT OF THEIR
POLICIES IN AN EFFORT TO FOCUS
ON THE POOR, WOMEN, AND
MINORITIES."
>> WELL, NO, I DIDN'T SEE ON AN
EFFORT TO FOCUS ON THE POOR,
WOMEN, AND MINORITIES.
THERE ARE A LOT OF POOR, WHITE
WORKING PEOPLE.
HERE'S I THINK WHAT I SAID HAS
BEEN A LITTLE MISUNDERSTOOD BY
SOME OF THE PEOPLE WHO HAVE BEEN
REPORTING ON IT.
IF YOU GUYS LOOK AT, FOR
INSTANCE, YOUR SHOW, YOUR RECENT
SHOW THAT TALKED ABOUT THE
DEMOGRAPHICS LOOKING INTO I
THINK 2016, WAS ON YOUR SHOW,
AND ONE OF THE PROJECTIONS WAS
THAT BY 2060, I THINK IT WAS 37
STATES WILL BE MAJORITY
MINORITY.
THE TERM "MAJORITY MINORITY" IS
AN ORWELLIAN TERM.
IT SHOWS WHAT'S HAPPENED IN THIS
COUNTRY, AND THAT IS THAT WE
HAVE ALL THESE DIFFERENT RACIAL
GROUPS THAT HAVE I THINK ALIGNED
THEMSELVES BY PARTY RATHER THAN
BY ECONOMIC CIRCUMSTANCES.
EVERY SINGLE RACIAL GROUP IN
THIS COUNTRY HAS PEOPLE WHO ARE
VERY SUCCESSFUL AND PEOPLE WHO
ARE NOT.
AND THAT ALSO INCLUDES THE
WHITES, BY CULTURE, RATHER THAN
SIMPLY BY INDIVIDUALS.
THE POOREST COUNTY IN AMERICA IS
CLAY COUNTY, KENTUCKY, WHICH IS
94% WHITE.
WHAT I'VE BEEN SAYING IS, IN
TERMS OF INCLUSIVENESS IN THE
DEMOCRATIC PARTY, THEY NEED TO
INCLUDE THIS GROUP AS WE MOVE
FORWARD IN TERMS OF ISSUES OF
ECONOMIC FAIRNESS.
>> Woodruff: WHITE WORKING
MALES.
>> WELL, RATHER THAN DIVIDING
PEOPLE BY RACE, WE SHOULD BE
EXAMINING THE OBLIGATION TO
EVERYONE IN TERMS OF THEIR
ECONOMIC CIRCUMSTANCES.
I THINK THE DEMOCRATIC PARTY CAN
DO A MUCH BETTER JOB OF THIS.
AND WE'RE GOING TO SEE A
TRANSFORMATION IN THE AMERICAN
POLITICAL PROCESS OVER THE NEXT
10 TO 20 YEARS.
WE'RE GOING TO PUT RACIAL
POLITICS ASIDE AND WE'RE GOING
TO START LOOKING AGAIN AT
ECONOMIC GLOOSHZ JUST A WORD,
EXCUSE ME, ABOUT FOREIGN POLICY
BECAUSE YOU'VE BEEN VERY
CRITICAL OF THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION, FORMER SECRETARY
OF STATE CLINTON, ABOUT
INTERVENTIONS, IN LIBYA, IN
PARTICULAR, OVERSEAS.
YOU WERE AGAINST THE IRAQ WAR
UNDER PRESIDENT BUSH.
MY QUESTION IS HOW FAR REMOVED
WOULD YOU KEEP AN AMERICAN
MILITARY PRESENCE?
FOR EXAMPLE, RIGHT NOW IN IRAQ,
THE HUNDREDS OF U.S. TRAINERS
WHO ARE THERE WORKING WITH THE
IRAQI MILITARY, THE KURDS, TO
FIGHT ISIS, WHAT WOULD-- WOULD
YOU TAKE THOSE TRAINERS OUT?
WHAT WOULD YOUR POSTURE BE
TOWARDS ISIS?
>> AGAIN, THIS WASN'T SIMPLY A
COMMENT ABOUT THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION AND LIBYA.
I HAVE BEEN SAYING THIS EACH
SINCE THE END OF THE COLD WAR,
THAT WE NEED TO HAVE A NEW
DOCTRINE THAT CLEARLY
ARTICULATES AMERICAN SECURITY
INTERESTS AROUND THE WORLD, AND
TO BUILD OUR OBJECTIVES BASED ON
CLEARLY ARTICULATED DOCTRINE.
ON THE ONE HAND, I DID SAY FIVE
MONTHS BEFORE THE INVASION OF
IRAQ, THAT THIS WAS GOING TO BE
A STRATEGIC BLUNDER, AND I DID
SAY THE WAY WE WENT INTO LIBYA
CREATES SERIOUS PROBLEMS FOR US.
BUT ON THE OTHER HAND, I HAVE
LED WHAT HAS BEEN CALLED THE
PIVOT TO ASIA.
I FOCUSED ON THIS ALL MY ADULT
LIFE, THE FACT THAT WE NEED TO
BE MILITARILY, ECONOMICALLY, AND
CULTURALLY STRONG IN THE EAST
AND SOUTHEAST ASIA.
SO THIS ISN'T SIMPLY, YOU KNOW,
WE SHOULDN'T BE USING MILITARY
FORCE.
IT'S CLEARLY ARTICULATING THE
CIRCUMSTANCES UNDER WHICH WE
ADDRESS OUR NATIONAL POLICY
GLOOZ WHAT WOULD YOU BE DOING
ABOUT ISIS RIGHT NOW?
>> WELL, ISIS HAS DEMONSTRATED I
THINK CLEARLY THAT THEY ARE AN
INTERNATIONAL TERRORIST
ORGANIZATION.
THEIR PRINCIPAL FOCUS IS NOT THE
UNITED STATES.
I DON'T SEE THAT.
IT IS IN THAT REGION.
BUT SINCE THEY HAVE DEMONSTRATED
THAT THEY ARE AN INTERNATIONAL
TERRORIST ORGANIZATION, WE
SHOULD BE CAREFULLY ARTICULATING
A MILITARY POLICY THAT GOES
AFTER THESE PEOPLE.
I DON'T THINK THERE'S ANY
QUESTION ABOUT THAT.
THAT DOESN'T MEAN WE SHOULD
BECOME AN OCCUPYING FORCE IN
THAT PART OF THE WORLD.
WE NOW ARE REAPING THE
CONSEQUENCES OF THE WAY WE
INVADED AND OCCUPIED IRAQ.
>> Woodruff: JIM WEBB, WHO IS
CONSIDERING RUNNING FOR
PRESIDENT, WE THANK YOU FOR
TALKING WITH US.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU FOR HAVING ME.
>> Woodruff: FOR THE RECORD,
SENATOR WEBB WON AN EMMY FOR AN
ESSAY HE DID FOR THE NEWSHOUR IN
1983 ON MARINES IN BEIRUT, JUST
BEFORE THE DEADLY BOMBING OF THE
BARRACKS.
YOU CAN WATCH THAT ON OUR
WEBISTE, pbs.org/newshour.
>> Woodruff: THE USE AND
POSSESSION OF SMALL AMOUNTS OF
MARIJUANA BECAME LEGAL IN THE
NATION'S CAPITAL TODAY.
LAST NOVEMBER, VOTERS
OVERWHELMINGLY VOTED TO ALLOW
POSSESSION OF UP TO TWO OUNCES
OF THE DRUG.
THE INITIATIVE WAS NOT AS
SWEEPING AS IN COLORADO AND
WASHINGTON STATE, WHICH
LEGALIZED RECREATIONAL USE IN
2012.
OR IN ALASKA, WHERE CULTIVATION
AND USE BECAME LEGAL THIS WEEK.
BUT WASHINGTON D.C., A FEDERAL
JURISDICTION WITH LOCAL LAWS,
HAS RUN STRAIGHT INTO THE
CROSSROADS OF THE NATION'S DRUG
DEBATE.
WHAT'S PERMISSIBLE?
WHAT'S LEGAL?
FOR THAT, WE TURN TO MIKE
DeBONIS OF THE WASHINGTON POST.
ONE OF THE INTERESTING THINGS
ABOUT THIS PARTICULAR LAW IS
THAT CONGRESS, OR AT LEAST SOME
MEMBERS OF CONGRESS, TRIED TO
STOP IT.
WHY IS THAT?
>> WELL, GWEN, THANKS FOR HAVING
ME ON.
QUITE SIMPLY, THERE ARE CERTAIN
MEMBERS OF CONGRESS, ALMOST ALL
OF THEM-- ALL OF THEM
REPUBLICANS, MOST OF THEM
MEMBERS OF THE HOUSE, WHO SIMPLY
DO NOT THINK THAT THE MARIJUANA
SHOULD BE LEGALLY POSSESSED AND
USED IN THE NATION'S CAPITAL.
AND THEY TOOK ACTION TO STOP THE
DISTRICT FROM MOVING FORWARD
WITH THE LAW PASSED BY ITS
RESIDENTS BY ATTACHING A PIECE
OF LANGUAGE TO THE FUNDING BILL
PASSED BY CONGRESS IN LATE
DECEMBER TO FUND THE GOVERNMENT
THROUGH THE REST OF THE FISCAL
YEAR THIS YEAR.
AND WHAT THE LANGUAGE SAID WAS
NO FUNDS COULD BE USED BY THE
DISTRICT GOVERNMENT TO ENACT ANY
MEASURE THAT WOULD LIBERALIZE
MARIJUANA LAWS IN THE DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA.
NOW THERE IS A DISPUTE BETWEEN
THE REPUBLICANS WHO SPONSORED
THAT LANGUAGE AND VOTED FOR IT,
AND THE CITY AND DEMOCRATICWHO Y
THERE'S ROOM WITHIN THAT
LANGUAGE TO ALLOW WHAT WAS
PASSED BY THE VOTERS IN NOVEMBER
TO GO FORWARD.
>> Ifill: THERE WAS
OVERWHELMING PASSAGE OF THIS,
70%--
>> 71%.
>> Ifill: VOTE FORWARD IT.
AND IN ADDITION, LAST JULY, THEY
DECRIMINALIZED.
INSTEAD OF GOING TO JAIL, YOU
JUST PAY A FINE IF YOU ARE FOUND
IN POSITION OF WEED.
IS THIS A DIFFERENCE WITHOUT A
DISTINCTION?
>>ENING A LOT OF WAYS IT IS, BUT
IT IS ANOTHER STEP.
IT REALLY IS MORE OF A BIG
PSYCHOLOGICAL DISTINCTION TO SAY
THAT MARIJUANA IS LEGAL, WE HAVE
LEGAL MARIJUANA POSSESSION AND
USE IN THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA,
VERSUS DECRIMINALIZED.
I THINK MUCH AS THERE IS A BIG
DIFFERENCE BETWEEN CIVILIANS,
SAME-SEX CIVILIANS AND SAME-SEX
MANNER FOR A LOT OF PEOPLE, I
THINK THERE'S A SIMILAR
DIFFERENCE IN THE USE OF
TERMINOLOGY, EVEN IF THE
PRACTICAL EFFECT IS NOT VERY
DIFFERENT.
>> Ifill: LET'S TALK FOR A
MOMENT ABOUT THE PRACTICAL
EFFECT.
BECAUSE THIS LAW WILL ALLOW
PEOPLE TO POSSESS SMALL AMOUNTS,
TO GROW, WHAT, SIX PLANT AT A
TIME, BUT NOT TO SELL IT, NOT TO
EVEN SMOKE IT OUTDOORS.
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
THE BIG CATCH IS THAT DUE TO THE
TIMING OF ALL OF THIS, THE FACT
THAT THE REFERENDUM WAS PASSED
IN NOVEMBER, AND THEN CONGRESS
PUT A HALT TO ANY FURTHER ACTION
IN DECEMBER, WHAT YOU HAVE IS
THE LETTER OF THE LAW THAT
PASSED IN THAT NOVEMBER
REFERENDUM IS NOW ON THE BOOKS.
BUT THE CITY IS POWERLESS TO DO
ANYTHING TO ADD, SUBTRACT, OR
MODIFY WHAT WAS IN THE
REFERENDUM.
SO THAT MEANS THAT THEY CANNOT
ESTABLISH A TAXATION REGIME, A
REGIME TO REGULATE THE SALES OF
MARIJUANA.
SO WHAT YOU HAVE NOW IS THAT
PEOPLE CAN HAVE MARIJUANA.
THEY CAN SMOKE IT.
THEY CAN GROW IT ON THEIR OWN
PRIVATE PREMISES.
THEY CAN USE IT ON THEIR OWN
PRIVATE PREMISES, BUT THEY
CANNOT SELL IT.
THEY CANNOT BUY IT.
>> Ifill: I JUST WANT TO-- I'M
CURIOUS WHERE THAT PUTS THE
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA ON THE
CONTINUUM OF OTHER JURISDICTIONS
WHICH HAVE MOVED TO LEGALIZE
MARIJUANA.
IS IT LESS LIBERAL, MORE
LIBERAL?
>> IT'S HARD TO EVEN PUT IT ON
THAT CONTINUUM.
IT'S REALLY ONE OF A KIND.
IN SOME WAYS IT'S MORE LIBERAL.
IN THE DISTRICT, UNDER THIS NEW
LAW, YOU CAN HAVE TWO OUNCES OF
MARIJUANA, WHICH IS MORE THAN
YOU CAN HAVE LEGALLY AT ANY ONE
TIME IN WASHINGTON OR COLORADO
OR ALASKA.
ON THE OTHER HAND, THE FACT THAT
THERE'S NO LEGAL SALES OR
THERE'S NO LEGAL PUBLIC USE,
PUBLIC ACCOMMODATIONS FOR USING
MARIJUANA MAKES IT MORE
CONSERVATIVE THAN THOSE OTHER
PLACE GLFS AND IT IS STILL A
FEDERAL VIOLATION IN THE CITY
THAT SO MUCH OF ITS LAND IS
FEDERAL PROPERTY.
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
>> Ifill: TO HAVE-- OR USE OR
SELL OR EXCHANGE MARIJUANA IN
ANY WAY, RIGHT?
THAT'S RIGHT.
AND WHAT'S NOTABLE ABOUT THAT IS
THAT OUR LOCAL U.S. ATTORNEY
HERE HAS SAID THAT HE IS
BASICALLY GOING TO TREAT THE
DISTRICT MUCH AS THE JUSTICE
DEPARTMENT HAS TREATED STATES
THAT HAVE LIBERALIZED THEIR
MARIJUANA LAWS.
THEY ARE GOING TO FOLLOW THE
SAME GUIDANCE WHICH WAS
CONTAINED IN A MEMO ISSUED BY
THE JUSTICE DEPARTMENT MORE THAN
A YEAR AGO.
BASICALLY WHAT THAT MEANS IS THE
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT IS SENDING
THE SIGNAL THAT THEY'RE NOT
GOING TO BE CONCERNED WITH
ENFORCING FEDERAL MARIJUANA LAWS
WHERE LOCAL AUTHORITIES AREN'T
GOING TO BE CONCERNED WITH
ENFORCING THEIR LOCAL LAWS.
>> Ifill: ONE THING WE KNOW
FOR SURE THERE WILL BE NO POT
SMOKING ON THE STEPS OF THE
JEFFERSON MEMORIAL.
NONE OF THAT IS GOING TO HAPPEN.
>> AND CERTAINLY NOT IN THE
HALLS OF CONGRESS.
>> Ifill: AND CERTAINLY NOT IN
THE HALLS OF CONGRESS.
MIKE DEBONIS OF THE "WASHINGTON
POST," THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> THANKS, GWEN.
>> Woodruff: MOST AMERICANS
DEPEND ON SOCIAL SECURITY IN
RETIREMENT, YET NAVIGATING THE
SYSTEM IS OFTEN COMPLEX AND
CONFUSING.
ECONOMICS CORRESPONDENT
PAUL SOLMAN HAS CO-AUTHORED A
NEW BOOK ON THE INS AND OUTS OF
THE BENEFIT SYSTEM AND TONIGHT
HE SHARES SOME OF WHAT HE'S
LEARNED.
IT'S PART OF OUR GOINONG
REPORTING: "MAKING SENSE," WHICH
AIRS EVERY THURSDAY ON THE
NEWSHOUR.
>> Reporter: IT'S OFTEN SAID
THAT AGING AMERICA FACES A
RETIREMENT CRISIS, AND ACCORDING
TO THE AARP, THE MAIN SOURCE OF
INCOME FOR NEARLY HALF OF
AMERICANS IN OLDER AGE IS SOCIAL
SECURITY.
A SIMPLE SYSTEM ESTABLISHED
DURING THE GREAT DEPRESSION TO
PROVIDE A SAFETY NET FOR THE
INDIGENT IN THEIR OLD AGE.
TODAY, IT'S BECOME A MOUNTAIN OF
RULES, MORE THAN 2,000 OF THEM,
SUCCESSFULLY CLIMBED ONLY BY
THOSE WHO GET GOOD GUIDANCE FROM
SOCIAL SECURITY OR FROM SOMEONE
LIKE ECONOMIST LARRY KOTLIKOFF.
A FEW YEARS AGO ON THIS TENNIS
COURT ON A SOMEWHAT MORE
HOSPITABLE DAY.
HE ASKED ME A QUESTION:
>> WHAT ARE YOU DOING ABOUT
SOCIAL SECURITY.
>> AND I SAID, "WE HAVE IT ALL
FIGURED OUT AS I ABSOLUTELY
THOUGHT WE DID.
WE'RE GOING TO WAIT UNTIL 70,
AND THEN WE GET THE MAXIMUM
BENEFIT.
>> RIGHT, AND I FIGURED YOU
DIDN'T KNOW WHAT YOU WERE DOING
SO I ASKED HOW OLD YOU AND JAN
WERE.
>> AND I SAID, PERHAPS
DEFENSIVELY-- WHAT DIFFERENCE
DOES IT MAKE.
I'M ABOUT TO TURN 66.
JAN IS ROUGHLY THE SAME AGE.
>> IT MAKES A BIG DIFFERENCE.
I BET I CAN GET YOU AN EXTRA
$30,000 $40,000.
>> HE SAID MY WIFE SHOULD APPLY
AT AGE 66, BUT SUSPEND IT.
GET HERSELF INTO THE SYSTEM,
THAT IS, BUT NOT TAKE ANY.
S YET.
THEN WHEN I TURN 66, I'D APPLY
FOR A SPOUSAL BENEFIT,MOU ANTING
TO HALF OF WHAT MY WIFE WAS
ENTITLED TO.
THEN, WHEN WE EACH HIT 70, WE'D
TAKE OUR OWN RETIREMENT
BENEFITS,CHEN
TO THEIR MAXIMUM.
THE RESULT-- ALMOST $50,000 IN
ADDITIONAL INCOME FOR MY FAMILY
IN SPOUSAL BENEFITS OVER THE
FOUR YEARS BETWEEN 66 AND 70.
THERE ARE LOTS OF SECRETS LIKE
THE SPOUSAL BENEFIT, IT TURNS
OUT.
FOR THE DISABLES, THE DIVORCED,
THE WIDOWED, THOSE TAKING CARE
OF KIDS OR ELDERLY PARENTS.
SO I INVITED LARRY TO ANSWER
VIEWER QUESTIONS ON OUR "MAKING
SENSE" PAGE EVERY MONDAY.
HIS COLUMN'S SUCCESS PROMPTED US
TO WRITE A BOOK OF SOCIAL
SECURITY ADVICE "GET WHAT'S
YOURS" "MONEY" MAGAZINE'S
MOELLER COMPLETING THE TRIO OF
AUTHORS.
MOELLER EXPLAINED HOW IMPORTANT
SOCIAL SECURITY IS FOR MOST
PEOPLE.
>> IT'S THE MOST VALUABLE
RETIREMENT ASSET THEY HAVE.
>> SO THE FIRST PIECE OF ADVICE
YOU GIVE PEOPLE?
>> THE FIRST PIECE OF ADVICE IS
TO GET ALL THE BENEFITS TO WHICH
YOU'RE ENTITLED AND AMONG THESE,
THE ONE THAT IS MOST OFTEN
OVERLOOKED IS SPOUSAL.
S.
THE SECOND POINT IS GET THEM IN
THE RIGHT TIME AND THAT MEANS
BEING PATIENT.
>> Reporter: THE AVERAGE
SOCIAL SECURITY BENEFIT IN
AMERICA AT AGE 62 IS JUST OVER
12,000 A YEAR.
BUT FOR EVERY YEAR YOU DEFER
YOUR BENEFIT, IT INCREASES.
AND IF YOU WAIT TILL 70, YOU GET
FULLY 76% MORE, MORE THAN
$21,000 A YEAR IN THIS EXAMPLE.
BUT CLOSE TO HALF OF ALL
RECIPIENTS START TAKING THEIR
BENEFITS AT THE AGE OF 62, THUS
LOCKING IN THE LOWEST MONTHLY
BENEFIT RATE FOR THE REST OF
THEIR LIVES.
AND LESS THAN 2% OF US HOLD OUT
FOR THE MAXIMUM RETIREMENT
BENEFIT AT AGE 70.
MANY PEOPLE HAVE NO CHOICE BUT
TO START EARLY.
>> BUT IT TURNS OUT THAT WHEN
PEOPLE LEARN ABOUT THEIR
BENEFITS AND HOW THEY CAN GROW,
A LOT OF THEM DECIDE TO TAKE
THEM LATER.
HOW OLD WAS YOUR DAD, PAUL, WHEN
HE PASSED AWAY?
>> JUST A LITTLE OVER 99.
>> YEAH, SO YOU MIGHT LIVE THAT
LONG.
IMAGINE THAT WHATTHAT WILL BE
LIKE.
>> Reporter: YES, I HAD
PLANNED TO WAIT UNTIL 70, BUT IT
TURNS OUT, AS I DISCUSSED WITH
LARRY KOTLIKOFF IN A MADE-FOR-TV
HOSPITAL, I WAS FOLLOWING THE
WRONG PRESCRIPTION.
I THOUGHT HOW LONG DO I HAVE TO
LIVE BEFORE THE HIGHER BENEFITS,
WAITING UNTIL AGE 70, WILL BE AS
GREAT OR GREATER THAN THE
BENEFITS I LEFT ON THE TABLE BY
NOT TAKING SOCIAL SECURITY
EARLIER?
>> THAT KIND OF BREAK-EVEN
ANALYSIS IS JUST NUTS BECAUSE
SOCIAL SECURITY IS REALLY AN
INSURANCE MECHANISM.
YOU DON'T LOOK AT BUYING
HOMEOWNER'S INSURANCE ON A
BREAK-EVEN BASIS.
YOU LOOK AT THE WORST-CASE
SCENARIO, THE CATASTROPHE THAT
YOUR HOUSE BURNS DOWN.
>> Reporter: THAT ARGUMEN OFT
YOURS ACTUALLY CLINCHED THE DEAL
FOR ME, BECAUSE I THOUGHT, HEY,
WHAT'S THE WORST THAT COULD
HAPPEN?
I OUTLIVE MY SAVINGS, AND THEN
MY KIDS ARE ON THE HOOK FOR
HEALTH CARE COSTS.
>> RIGHT.
WE HAVE TO THINK ABOUT SOCIAL
SECURITY AS PROVIDING INSURANCE
AGAINST ONE OF OUR BIGGEST RISKS
WHICH IS WHAT?
IT'S NOT DYING.
IT'S LIVING TO A VERY OLD AGE
AND YOU END UP IN A PLACE LIKE
THIS, AND YOU HAVE A HUGE
EXPENSES, MEDICAL EXPENSES, AND
YOU NEED MONEY.
>> Reporter: BUT AMERICANS
TAKE THEIR BENEFITS EARLY FOR
REASONS OTHER THAN JUST NEEDING
THE MONEY.
>> THEY TAKE THEM EARLY BECAUSE
THEY DON'T THINK THEY'RE GOING
TO LIVE A LONG TIME.
AND MEDICINE OF PEOPLE TAKE
THEIR BENEFITS EARLY BECAUSE
THEY'RE PRETTY CONVINCED THE
SYSTEM'S GOING TO RUN OUT OF
MONEY AND THEY BETTER GET EVERY
DOLLAR THEY CAN AS SOON AS THEY
CAN.
>> Reporter: AND AREN'T PEOPLE
TAKING THEIR MONEY EARLY BECAUSE
OF CHICKEN LITTLES LIKE YOU.
YOU'VE BEEN ARGUING FOR YEARS
THAT SOCIAL SECURITY IS
BANKRUPT.
THE SYSTEM IS PROAK.
SO WHY SHOULDN'T A PERSON TAKE
THEIR MONEY AS SOON AS THEY CAN?
>> WELL, THE SYSTEM IS
ABSOLUTELY BROKE, BUT I STILL
DON'T THINK THAT ANYBODY WHO IS
NOW RETIRED OR ANYBODY WHO IS
CLOSE TO GETTING RETIRED IS
GOING TO SEE ANY BENEFIT CUTS
POLITICALLY.
>> Reporter:AND BY
"POLITICALLY" YOU MEAN IT'S JUST
TOO HOT AN ISSUE?
>> THAT'S WHY-- THAT'S WHY
CUTTING SOCIAL SECURITY BENEFITS
HAS LONG BEEN DESCRIBED AS THE
THIRD RAIL OF POLITICS.
>> IF YOU LOOK AT THE SYSTEM IN
THE NEARER TERM, DESPITE ALL OF
ITS PROBLEMS, IT HAS ENOUGH
MONEY TO PAY EVERY DOLLAR IT'S
SUPPOSED TO PAY FOR MORE THAN 20
YEARS, ABOUT 20 YEARS, AND THEN
IT CAN STILL PAY 70 CENTS ON THE
DOLLAR FOR EVERY BENEFIT IT
OWES.
>> Reporter: AND THAT'S
ASSUMING NO REFORMS AT ALL.
REFORMS LIKE, SAY, GETTING RID
OF OR HEAVILY TAXING BENEFITS
SUCH AS THE ONES MY WIFE AND I
TOOK, BENEFITS SOME PEOPLE
CONSIDER LOOPHOLES.
>> WELL YOU COULD VIEW IT AS A
LOOPHOLE.
ON THE OTHER HAND YOU PAID A LOT
OF TAX AND THERE ARE OTHER
LOOPHOLES IN OUR STHE MORTGAGE
INTEREST DECONDUCTION FOR
EXAMPLE, WOULD IT BE FAIR FOR
SOME OF US TO TAKE IT AND NOT
OTHERS BECAUSE WE KNOW ABOUT IT?
I DON'T SEE ANY REASON WHY
PEOPLE SHOULDN'T TAKE WHAT
THEY'RE LEGALLY ENTITLED TO.
>> THIS IS ECONOMIC
CORRESPONDENT PAUL SOLMAN
REPORTING FOR THE PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Ifill: NOW, AS BLACK HISTORY
MONTH DRAWS TO A CLOSE, WE TALK
TO THE AUTHOR OF A NEW BOOK
ABOUT A BLACK WOMAN JOURNALIST
WHO WAS NEARLY ALONE IN HER
FIELD.
>> Ifill: SHE IS THE THE MOST
INFLUENTIAL JOURNALIST AND
ACTIVIST MOST HAVE NEVER HEARD
OF.
ETHEL PAYNE BEGAN HER CAREER AT
A STRD BLACK NEWSPAPER THAT
SPECIALIZED IN TELLING STORIES.
PAYNE TRAVELED THE WORLD,
COVERED EVERY PRESIDENT FROM
EISENHOWER TO REAGAN, TRAVELED
TO VIETNAM, AND REPEATEDLY TO
AFRICA.
SHE WAS FRONT AND CENTER AT THE
MONTGOMERY BUS BOYCOTT AT THE
DESEG EXWAIGZ OF LITTLE ROCK
CENTRAL HIGH SCHOOL.
SHE IS KNOWN AS THE FIRST LADY
OF THE BLACK PRESS.
HER GROUNDBREAKING WORK HAS BEEN
OBSCURED BY TIME.
BIOGRAPHER JAMES McGRATH SETS
OUT TO CORRECT THAT IN HIS NEW
BOOK "EYE ON THE STRUGGLE."
WELCOME.
THIS STRIKES ME AS ONE OF THOSE
STORIES WHERE HOW YOU TELL IT
DEPENDS ON THE PERSON WHOSE
STORY YOU'RE TELLING.
SHE'S A STORYTELLER, BUT ETHEL
PAYNE'S STORY WAS DIFFERENT.
>> ETHEL PAYNE'S STORY WAS VERY
DIFFERENT.
AND THE THING THAT HER NOT BEING
KNOWN TODAY IS REALLY A LEGACY
OF SEGREGATION IN THAT SHE WAS
ICONIC TO A LARGE SEGMENT OF THE
U.S. POPULATION, BUT LIKE MOST
BLACK INSTITUTIONS, THE CHICAGO
DEFENDER WAS ENTIRELY INVISIBLE
TO WHITE AMERICANS.
AND SO SHE FUNCTIONED IN THIS
WORLD, WAS INCREDIBLY IMPORTANT
IN INFORMING HER READERS AND
ACTIVATING HER READERS YET THE
REST OF THE NATION MARCHED ON
WITHOUT KNOWING WHO SHE WAS.
>> Ifill: ONE OF THE THINGS
ABOUT THE BLACK PRESS AT THE
TIME IS THAT THEY WERE ADVOCATES
FOR PEOPLE WHO HAD MOVED NORTH,
MANY OF THEM, BECAUSE OF THE
GREAT MIGRATION.
IT WAS A DIFFERENT ROLE.
>> A VERY DIFFERENT ROLE.
BUT SHE ALSO SAW HERSELF AS
VEHICLE A DIFFERENT ROLE AS A
CORRESPONDENT IN WASHINGTON,
MERELY GETTING FOR HER APARTMENT
TO THE WHITE HOUSE COULD BE A
PROBLEM BECAUSE A CAB MIGHT NOT
PICK HER UP AS AN AFRICAN
AMERICAN.
SO THE DISCUSSING
CIVIL RIGHTS WITH THE PRESIDENT
OF THE UNITED STATES, IN THAT
CASE EISENHOWER, SHE FELT SHE
WAS PART OF, IN HER WORDS, THE
PROBLEM, AND SHE COULDN'T PURSUE
TYPICAL OBJECTIVE REPORTING.
INSTEAD, SHE ADOPTED A MEASURE
OF BEING FAIR.
IT MAY SEEM LIKE A SMALL
DISTINCTION, BUT IT WASN'T.
HER QUESTIONS WERE LADENED WITH
AN AGENDA.
>> Ifill: AND HOW DID THESE
PRESIDENTS AND POWERFUL PEOPLE
REACT TO HER?
>> WELL, IT DEPENDED.
EISENHOWER AT FIRST CALLED ON
HER REPEATEDLY, AND AT THIS
POINT, SHE WAS DISCOVERING THAT
ASKING A QUESTION AT A NATIONAL
PRESS CONFERENCE, HAVING A SEAT
AT THE TABLE, IF YOU WISH, MADE
A HUGE DIFFERENCE, BECAUSE WHEN
SHE ASKED A QUESTION, IT FORCED
THE MAIN STREAM-- WHITE MEDIA--
TO REPORT ON AN ISSUE, CIVIL
RIGHTS, THAT THEY WERE IGNORING.
SO EISENHOWER TOOK THE
QUESTIONS, BUT WHEN THEY BECAME
DIFFICULT, HE GOT VERY UPSET AND
HE FROZE HER OUT OF-- HE
WOULDN'T CALL ON HER ANYMORE.
>> Ifill: AND YET SHE DIDN'T
NECESSARILY ALWAYS TOE THE LINE
ON CIVIL RIGHTS.
FOR INSTANCE, SHE WAS CRITICAL
AT TIMES OF MARTIN LUTHER KING.
>> SHE WAS.
SHE WAS CRITICAL OF HIM, BUT
WHAT SHE WORRIED ABOUT-- AND
THIS IS A FINE LINE SOMEBODY
LIKE HER HAD TO DANCE OR WALK--
IS THAT SHE WAS WORRIED THAT
CRITICISM BEING AIRED IN THE
WHITE WORLD.
FOR INSTANCE, THERE WERE MOMENTS
WHEN A BLACK LEADER WOULD SAY
SOMETHING TO A MIXED AUDIENCE,
AND THAT WORRIED HER.
BUT WITHIN HER REPORTING AND
WITHIN HER OWN AUDIENCE, SHE WAS
AT TIMES VERY CRITICAL OF
DIFFERENT LEADERS.
>> Ifill: SHE WAS IN THE
JOURNALISM BUSINESS.
SHE WAS OUT OF IT.
SOMETIMES SHE WAS AN ADVOCATE
WORK LABOR UNIONS, OR SHE WAS
DOING VERY MANY THINGS.
>> OH, VOTER REGISTRATION FOR
THE DEMOCRATIC PARTY.
>> Ifill: COULD SOMEONE LIKE
HER, WHO WAS AS EASILY AN
ADVOCATE AS A JOURNALIST, COULD
THEY EXIST TODAY IN THIS
ENVIRONMENT?
>> WELL, THEY DO.
I MEAN, IF YOU LOOK AT SOME
FORMS OF THE MEDIA, THERE SEEMS
TO BE NO LINE BETWEEN THEIR
ADVOCACY AND THEIR JOB IN THE
MEDIA.
BUT, NO, I THINK TRADITIONAL
JOURNALISM WOULD OBJECT TO WHAT
SHE WAS DOING.
BUT THERE WAS ALSO ECONOMIC
NEED.
WHEN WORKED FOR "THE DEFENDER"
AS THE WASHINGTON CORRESPONDENT
SHE HAD TO PICK UP EXTRA WORK TO
MAKE ENDS MEET.
THIS WASN'T A WORLD OF HIGH-PAID
JOURNALISM.
>> Ifill: SHE GOT A JOB
WORKING FOR CBS NEWS THAT ADDED
SUBSTANTIALLY TO HER TAKEHOME
PAY.
>> IT CERTAINLY DID.
WHEN SHE BECAME ON TELEVISION
ORADIO, A BLACK COMMENTATOR, OR
A COMMENTATOR WHO WAS BLACK,
WHAT WAS INTERESTING TO ME IS
WHAT A PROFOUND EFFECT THAT HAD
ON VIEWERS.
I MET A MAN WITH WHO BECAME AN
ANCHOR IN SEVERAL MAJOR MARKETS,
AN AFRICAN AMERICAN MALE WHO IS
NOW RETIRED, AND HE SAID WHEN HE
SAW HER ON TV HE REALIZED THAT
CAREER WAS POSSIBLE.
>> Ifill: THAT'S KIND OF WHAT
I'M CURIOUS ABOUT WITH ETHEL
PAYNE AND OTHER JOURNALISTS OF
HER GENERATION, WHETHER THEY HAD
A LASTING IMPACT, EVEN IF MANY
PEOPLE NOW ARE THINKING WHO IS
THAT, WHETHER THE KINDS OF WALLS
THEY BROKE DOWN MADE A
DIFFERENCE.
>> I THINK LESS SO IN TERMS OF
THE WALLS BUT MORE SO IN TERMS
OF THEIR JOURNALISM AND WRITING.
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT HAPPENED
IS SHE HELPED CHANGE THE
NATIONAL AGENDA BY HER
QUESTIONING.
AND THEN WHEN SHE LEFT
WASHINGTON AND WENT TO COVER THE
FRONT LINES OF THE CIVIL RIGHTS
MOVEMENT WHAT, SHE WAS REPORTING
BACK TO PEOPLE, PARTICULARLY IN
THE NORTH-- YOU KNOW, CHICAGO IS
A PLACE MARTIN LUTHER KING WOULD
COME TO RAISE MONEY, WAS A
REALLY IMPORTANT LINK BETWEEN
THE MOVEMENT AND THE READERS.
AND THAT REALLY HELPED CHANGE
THINGS.
AND SHE ALSO WAS INCREDIBLY
PERCEPTIVE AS A JOURNALIST, EVEN
THOUGH, AS I SAID, THE WHITE
MEDIA WASN'T READING HER WORK.
SHE WAS THE FIRST TO SEE THE
CHANGE IN LEADERSHIP THAT TOOK
PLACE IN MONTGOMERY WHERE MEN OF
THE CLOTH, AS SHE DESCRIBED, SHE
SAID THIS NEW GLADIATOR GOES
INTO THE BATTLE WEARING A
REVERSE COLLAR AND BIBLE IN HIS
HAND.
THAT MAY SEEM LIGHT IN TOWN TOEN
BUT WHAT SHE WAS NOTICING IS A
REALLY IMPORTANT TRANSFORMATION
AND WHO WAS GETTING THE NEWS
FIRST WERE AFRICAN AMERICANS AND
NOT THE WHITE PRESS.
>> Ifill: I HAVE TO END BY
QUOTING BACK TO YOU SOMETHING IN
YOUR BOOK FROM ERNEST GREEN, ONE
OF THE LITTLE ROCK 9.
LOOKING BACK HE SAID, "ETHEL AND
THE BLACK PRESS PUT THEMSELVES
OUT OF BUSINESS."
>> AND HE'S RIGHT.
THEIR SUCCESS OF BEING PART OF
THE CIVIL RIGHTS MOVEMENT MEANT
THE BEST REPORTERS GOT HIRED BY
THE WHITE PRESS AND THE ECONOMIC
BASE OF BLACK PRESS DISAPPEARED.
WHEN THE BLACK PRESS GOT STARTED
IN CHICAGO, THE "CHICAGO
TRIBUNE" HAD NO INTEREST IN
COVERING ANYTHING INVOLVING
AFRICAN AMERICANS.
"THE DEFENDER" HAD AN ECONOMIC
BASIS.
BUT AS SOON AS THE MEDIA, THE
MAINSTREAM MEDIA STARTED PAYING
ATTENTION, THAT CUT THE ECONOMIC
FEET OUT FROM UNDERNEATH MOST OF
THE BLARK NEWSPAPERS.
>> Ifill: JAMES McGRATH,
"EYE ON THE STRUGGLE," ETHEL
PAYNE, THE FIRST LADY OF THE
ACKBL PRESS.
THANK YOU FOR BRINGIN BRINGING S
STORY TO US,.
>> YOU'RE WELCOME, THANK YOU
VERY MUCH.
>> Woodruff: FINALLY TONIGHT, A
NATIONAL TOUR OF PAINTINGS BY
AFRICAN AMERICAN ARTIST HALE
WOODRUFF LANDS IN WASHINGTON,
TELLING A POWERFUL STORY OF
ENSLAVEMENT, REBELLION AND
REPATRIATION.
JEFFREY BROWN HAS MORE.
>> Brown: THOUGH ROOTED IN A
TARK CHAPTER OF AMERICAN
HISTORY, THE PAINTINGS ARE
RENDERED IN BRILLIANT COLORS AND
TOGETHER CONVEY A STORY OF
TRIUMPH OVER ONE OF THE WORST
FORMS OF ADVERSITY.
>> THESE MEN HAD BEEN CAPTURED
AS IT TURNED OUT ILLEGALLY, HAD
BEEN TAKEN AGAINST THEIR WILL TO
CUBA WHERE THEY WERE DESTINED TO
BE ENSLAVED ON SUGAR
PLANTATIONING WHICH WAS THE
WORST FATE YOU COULD HAVE.
>> Brown: "RISING UP" AN
EXHIBITION IN ATLANTA AND NOW AT
THE SMITHSONIAN IN WASHINGTON,
SHOWCASES WHAT ARE KNOWN AS THE
TALLADEGA MURALS.
THEY WERE COMMISSIONED IN 1938
BY TALLADEGA COLLEGE IN ALABAMA.
ONE OF THE EARLY HISTORICALLY
BLACK COLLEGES FOUNDED AFTER THE
CIVIL WAR.
TO TELL THE STORY OF THE AMSTAD,
WHEN 53 AFRICANS REVOLTED ON A
SPANISH SHIP CARRYING THEM TO
SLAVERY IN THE AMERICAS IN 1839.
I SPOKE WITH JACLYN SAWYER, THE
CHIEF CURATOR OF THE SOON TO
OPEN AFRICAN AMERICAN HISTORY
AND CULTEUR MUSEUM.
>> YOU SEE THESE ARE PEOPLE WHO
HAVE TAKEN CONTROL, WHO HAVE
DECIDED WHAT HAS TO HAPPEN AND
THEY'RE WILLING TO RISK THEIR
LIVES TO DO IT.
>> Announcer: IT'S A STORY
MADE FAMILIAR BY THE 1997VEN "A"
THE MURAL SHOWS THE VIOLENT
REBELLION ON THE SPANISH SHIP,
IN WHICH THE AFRICANS BROKE
FREE, KILLED THE CAPTAIN AND
COOK, AND TOOK CONTROL.
A SECOND PANEL SHOWS THEIR FIRST
TRIAL IN THE U.S. WHERE AFTER 63
DAYS AT SEA ATTEMPTING TO RETURN
TO AFRICA, THEY'D LANDED.
THEY WERE TRIED IN CONNECTICUT
FOR MURDER IN A CASE EVENTUALLY
ARGUED BEFORE THE U.S. SUPREME
COURT, WHERE THEY WERE DEFENDED
BY FORMER PRESIDENT JOHN QUINCY
ADAMS.
FINALLY, A THIRD PANEL SHOWS
THEIR RETURN TO AFRICA FOLLOWING
THEIR EXONERATION.
THE MAN BEHIND THE MURALS WAS
HALE WOODRUFF, AN AFRICAN
AMERICAN PAINTER WHO IN 1926,
BOUGHT A ONE-WAY TICKET TO
PARIS.
FOUR YEARS LATER, UPON HIS
RETURN TO THE U.S., WOODRUFF
FOUNDED THE ART DEPARTMENT AT
ATLANTA UNIVERSITY.
AND THEN HE STUDIED UNDER MEX
DAN PAINTER DIEGO RIVERA, WHO
WAS KNOWN FOR HIS MURALS.
>> HE HAD SEEN THE CUBISM AND
PICASSO AND MATISSE AND ALL THE
WORK THAT WAS GOING ON, THE
INTEREST IN AFRICAN ART THERE,
AND SO HE WAS VERY MUCH UP TO
DATE AND IMBUED WITH THE NEW
IDEAS ASSOCIATED WITH MODERN
ART, AND HE WAS VERY POLITICAL,
AND SO HE FIGURED THAT RIVERA
WAS THE PERSON HE NEEDED TO SEE
AND RIVERA WAS VERY MUCH A
MENTOR FOR HIM.
>> Brown: WOODRUFF'S WORK IN
THE 1930s WAS INSPIRED BY THE
DIFFICULT LIFE OF SOUTHERN
BLACKS DURING THE GREAT
DEPRESSION.
HE SHOWED SCENES OF POVERTY AND
EXPLOITATION AND IN A SERIES OF
BLOCK PRINT, HE PORTRAYED
LYNCHINGS, AS IN THIS WORK
TITLED "BY PARTIES UNKNOWN."
>> REMEMBER, THIS WAS 1938,
1939.
THIS WAS NOT THE HAPPIEST TIME
IN THE UNITED STATES FOR AFRICAN
AMERICANS.
THERE WERE GREATROBL PEMS STILL
IN THE SOUTH, LYNCHINGS AND
PROBLEMS WITH SEGREGATION AND SO
ON.
>> Brown: IN 1938, TALLADEGA
COLLEGE ASKED WOODRUFF TO
COMMEMORATE THE STORIES OF THE
AMISTAD, AND OF THE FOUNDING OF
THE COLLEGE IN A SERIES OF
MURALS.
>> TO HAVE FOR ONCE A TRIUMPHANT
STORY WHERE THE UNDERDOGS WHO
WERE BLACK MEN ARE ABLE TO TAKE
CONTROL OF THEIR LIVES AND
ACTUALLY SET THEIR OWN DESTINY
WAS SOMETHING THAT PEOPLE FOUND
THRILLING AND I THINK PROBABLY
SOME OTHER PEOPLE FOUND QUITE
THREATENING.
>> Brown: THE MURALS WILL BE
ON DISPLAY IN WASHINGTON UNTIL
MARCH 1, WHEN THEY'LL HEAD TO
ALABAMA AND CANCAS CITY,
MISSOURI, BEFORE RETURNING TO
TALLADEGA COLLEGE NEXT YEAR TO
RESIDE IN A NEW PERMANENT HOME.
FROIMJEFFREY BROWN FOR THE PBS
NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY, HOUSE
REPUBLICANS BEGAN CONSIDERING A
MEASURE TO KEEP THE HOMELAND
SECURITY DEPARTMENT FUNCTIONING
FOR THREE WEEKS.
AND THE BLACK-HOODED "ISLAMIC
STATE" EXTREMIST IN BEHEADING
VIDEOS WAS IDENTIFIED AS
MOHAMMED EMWAZI, WHO WAS RAISED
IN LONDON.
>> Ifill: ON THE NEWSHOUR
ONLINE, YOU HAVE AN ANTIQUATED
BRITISH TAX LAW TO THANK FOR THE
TRADITION KNOWN AS PUB CRAWLS.
TO AVOID PAYING A SEVENTEENTH
CENTURY "HEARTH TAX," BRITISH
SUBJECTS WOULD DESTROY THEIR
CHIMNEYS, AND THEY WOULD BE
FORCED TO FIND A HOT MEAL AT
LOCAL WATERING HOLES.
THE LAW DIDN'T LAST, BUT "PUB
CULTURE" DID.
READ ABOUT THAT AND OTHER
CREATIVE WAYS USED TO GET OUT OF
PAYING TAXES, ON OUR HOME PAGE.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, pbs.org/newshour.
>> Woodruff: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
ON FRIDAY, WE'LL LOOK AT THE
POLITICAL FIRESTORM BEHIND
ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER
NETANYAHU'S UPCOMING ADDRESS TO
CONGRESS.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
WE'LL SEE YOU ON-LINE.
AND AGAIN HERE TOMORROW EVENING
WITH MARK SHIELDS AND DAVID
BROOKS.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT